---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1: UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-01-29
published: true
labels:
  - 
  - WOD
---

Completing the three Browser History WODs was a refreshing experience. I am very much interested in coding, and even more so to code effectively and efficiently. I think that completing exercises like the given WODs is a great way to test our skills and improve them.

For Browser History 1 we were tasked to create an HTML document to act as our webpage. In this document we had to structure the documents into four subsections, link these subsections into the table of contents, add images for the three browsers listed and links relevant to them. I tried to complete this WOD twice. The first time, I completed the WOD within 17 minutes which is the average range. As I was completing each number of the instructions I worked towards fixing the little errors I made that didn't reflect the provided example. I was glad I did so because by doing this I was able to work out the problems I faced before attempting to complete the WOD again. The second time I attempeted Browser History 1 I finished in 12 minutes which is in the Rx range. I think I was able to do so because of the prior knowledge I obtained with VS Code in ICS 101. Since I knew the basics of coding a simple webpage it made it easier for me to discern the little mistakes I made along the way of completing this assignment.

My advice for completing Browser History 1 is to make sure you review the lectures and reading material for basic HTML before trying to complete the WOD. Doing so will ensure you don't spend so much time trying to figure out little things like which tags you need to apply to create a certain command. There's nothing more taxing and discouraging than spending more time than necessary on a task that would have been quicker if we decided to read the required material. More often than not the answer is already there. Another advice I would give is to make sure you organize your code efficiently. Something that takes up more time than it should is trying to look for a line of code within your HTML document. I think keeping your code organized from the get go also makes it much easier to catch simple mistakes.

Browser History 2 was definitely much easier to complete in comparison to Browser History 1. While Browser History 1 focused on creating the base of the webpage, Browser History 2 emphasized style. This WOD expected us to create a CSS stylesheet for the index.html we created in Browser History 1. We had to make a basic stylesheet that altered the font, font color, margin sizes, text width, background color, and logo placement. I completed Browser History 2 within the Rx time frame in one attempt. However, I attempted the WOD twice because I was not satisfied with the result. For the first attempt I completed the assignment in 9 minutes and 43 seconds. In the second attempt I finished in 4 minutes and 42 seconds. To improve my time I just grouped together commands to complete by the changes I had to make. For example, I knew that the text had to be Oswald for h1 and h2 but the remaining text had to be Open Sans but both should be in the font DarkBlue. So I grouped these changes together. I also just reorganized my way of formatting the code. By doing so it felt a lot simpler to complete the tasks.

My advice for completing Browser History 2 is to review material and plan before attempting. When you read all the instructions before attempting you can create a mind map or a broad idea of how you want to tackle the assignment. By doing so you spend less time worrying about completing the tasks and where to start. This way you have a steady plan to follow and you won't end up overthinking each step of the instructions.

Completing Browser History 3 was not too bad either. It was definetely more complex than both Browser History 1 and Browser History 2 but it was mainly because of trying to figure out what works and what doesn't. It took me two tries to complete Browser History 3. In my first attempt I fell in the Average time frame at 13 minutes and 35 seconds. This is because I got a little stuck figuring out how to make my text centered in the browser when I make it full screen. At first I also had trouble with creating the three sections and I kept wracking my brain for answers until I realized I misspelled a tag in my CSS stylesheet. In my second attempt I was able to complete the assignment within the Rx range at 5 minutes and 25 seconds. A much faster time in comparison to my first attempt. But it was because I was able to figure out exactly what I did wrong in my first attempt.

My advice for completing Browser History 3 is to double even triple check your work! No matter how organized you are sometimes your brain works faster than your hands and eyes. You might miss something and spend too much time trying to figure out what it is. Although we want to complete something quickly and in a more time efficient manner, doing so may cost us more.
