---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E3: Preparing for WODs Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-02-16
published: true
labels:
  - WOD
---

These past two weeks, we worked on three different WODs: [Browser History 6](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/040.dynamic-web-pages/experience-browserhistory6.html), [SmartPhone Products 1 with Variables](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/050.variables_data_types/experience-SmartPhoneProducts1_variables.html) and [Invoice 1](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-invoice1.html). As time passed, completing the WODs became much easier to accomplish. These WODs showcased our knowledge of internal and external JavaScript, the DOM, and figuring out conditiondal statements. We were also tasked to incorporate JavaScript variables, expressions and operators in our code to increase efficiency.

I found completing Browser History 6 was similar to the first 3 Browser History WODs. To prepare, I refreshed my memory with relevant readings. In terms of preparation, I did everything I did in previous WODs to prepare. I did have an issue that I failed to notice in time for the Rx goal. In my first attempt, I was over the Rx limit by 3 minutes and was unsatisfied with that result. I had a dilemma in getting the linked buttons to show the browser icons. In attempt two, I figured out my mistake in my first attempt but messed up somewhere along my code. This delayed my time to just over the time limit, trying to figure out where I made a mistake. By attempt three, I thoroughly examined my code for errors. The only thing I did differently was slow down, which definitely helped.

For SmartPhone Products 1 with Variables, I found it much easier than the previous WOD. To prepare, I focused on skimming the instructions and reading relevant readings. I didn't stumble on any issues for this WOD because I decided to look over the instructions before deciding to start my WOD. Of all the WODs, this one was the most simple to follow. Skimming over the instructions is a must to create a basic plan to follow. 

Invoice 1 was more challenging to complete for me. To prepare, I read all relevant readings and skimmed the instructions. I found this WOD difficult because it differed from the other WODs. I moved as quickly as possible to fall within the Rx goal that I sacrificed the quality of my code. I tried this WOD three times, the first two times around 3-5 minutes after the Rx goal. The second attempt ended up being after the goal because I rushed so much that I forgot to change the Item, Quantity, and Prices of each product. I didn't realize until the end of the WOD, and it took me a moment to notice. When I finally did see, it was too late. I finished within the Rx goal for the last attempt because I learned from my previous attempts. Remembering to slow down and take my time is something I need to do in future WODs. 

In conclusion, the past 6 WODs have taught me the importance of taking time and checking my progress often. Doing so would save a lot of headaches when trying to figure out errors in my code. Remembering to check my browser progress is much easier than looking through a bunch of code. Aside from remembering to slow down and double check work, it is also important to refresh your memory on relevant information and skim the instructions to get a brief idea of what you are getting yourself into before attempting. These are tips I would bring with me in future WODs.
